MSP430 Microprocessors (1 board):
------------------------------------------
MSP430G2553
------------------------------------------

Reaction Game (Extra)
one button for pressing/reacting when a specific LED is lit
7 GPIO pins for outputting to 7 white LEDs (blinking individually, react button must not be pressed here)
1 GPIO pin for outputting to 2 RGB LEDs (blinks after the 7 LEDs, react button can be pressed here, speeds up game)
1 GPIO pin for outputting to 1 red LED (turns on if react button was not pressed at RGB LEDs' illumination)
one button for resetting (only when red LED is on, to restart the game back at slow speed)

------------------------------------------

The code begins inside the main block, where numerous volatile integers are declared: d,e,f,g,h,i,j,k, and a, and s,t,u,v,w,x,y,z, and lost. The next line turns off the on-board watchdog timer control. Nine GPIO pins are set as directional pins, and then set as outputs for the 9 total LEDs. The two BUTTONs are wired to internal resistors and set as output pins (pullups). Most of the volatile integers are equal to values to be used as globals (a=32000, s to z = 1, and lost=0). The a variable is used to define the initial speed of the game, the time between two LEDs illuminating. Two primary if-statements run the entire rest of the code inside of an infinite for-loop. The first if-statement runs its code only when the BUTTONs are not pressed and when lost=0. The 8 if-statements inside this if-statement essentially control the game during each individual LED, and they are almost identical (except the last one). The first of 8 if-statements only runs when s<1 (already 0 by default) and when lost=0 (also 0 by default). Inside this if-statement, d=0 to reset the counting integer d after the subsequent while-loop completes. The first LED in the series of 8 LEDs is toggled from off-to-on. The while-loop runs and increments d by 1 until d is no longer less than a=32000. Outside the while-loop, s is incremented by 1, and t is decremented by 1. The increment/decrement of s and t are essentially used to turn off this current if-statement and turn on the next subsequent if-statement. Inside the first of 8 if-statements, however, another if-statement will run only if the react BUTTON is pressed. This toggles on the red LED, toggles off the current LED, sets lost=1, and ends the game. 

The 7 out of 8 if-statements (one for each white LED) are nearly identical in this fashion, except for the integer variable names; they are changed (from d,s,t, to e,t,u, to f,u,v, to g,v,w, to h,w,x, to i,x,y, to j,y,z, respectively) to represent a new white LED. Also, the previous white LED is toggled off, and the current white LED is toggled on for the other if-statements. The last of the 8 if-statements is only slightly different in the sense that an if-statement inside of it does not cause the game to end, but rather cause the game to restart back to the first white LED and speed up the game overall. In this last if-statement (still within the first of the two primary if-statements), k=0, previous LED is toggled off and current LED toggled on, while-loop delays LED blinking until the incrementing of k by 1 is no longer less than a, and z is incremented by 1, all similar to the previous if-statements. The last if-statement is different, waiting for z==1 to be true, which automatically does become true after the incrementating of z occurs in the previous line. In this if-statement, the variables s=0,t=1,u=1,v=1,w=1,x=1,y=1,z=1 (identical to the global variables), and the two RGB LEDs (both wired to one pin) are toggled off. Setting s=0 automatically restarts the game back to the first white LED, and back to the first if-statement. However within the last if-statement (only when the RGB LEDs are on), if the react BUTTON is pressed then a=a-2000, which speeds up the performing of each if-statement, or in other words speeds up the game overall.

The second of the two primary if-statements only runs if the reset BUTTON is pressed and if lost==1 (only occurs if the red LED is on and if the game was lost). The variable a=30000 and s=0,t=1,u=1,v=1,w=1,x=1,y=1,z=1, and lost=0 (all identical to the global variables). For the final line, the red LED is toggled off, and due to the resetting of the global variables, the first of the 8 if-statements within the first primary if-statement runs again.

------------------------------------------
